https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fd3c33hcgiwev3.cloudfront.net%2F-1aNiyjsQS2-W5TAoXfzIA_ac10807fdfa4412dad9a8d519c525cf1_Digital-Marketing-E-commerce-Certificate-Glossary.docx%3FExpires%3D1702598400%26Signature%3DNK0EC-fuRArH4~fSOBVoCiwzUokK8J3J5DTPhMSOHyQUhJ16xAWW1bNDWhT55rcWDOyIzj-ldXvY82QJL7urpPiy3RKEEVtTdmS9Dn2mevtyZcF-5STMwiCJVYLW~1MOVVP0uLzSudTocaUAXJA3iKIiCxGJgu4~DWwjQwCy8y8_%26Key-Pair-Id%3DAPKAJLTNE6QMUY6HBC5A&wdOrigin=BROWSELINK

 What are digital marketing and e-commerce?
e-commerce is generally cheaper, more convenient, and more accessible than storefront sales.
 
E-commerce 
is a broad term that refers to the buying and selling of goods and services online.
 Most e-commerce purchases fall into  four categories: 
  1)Physical products, like books or home goods; 
  2)Digital products, like ebooks or online courses; 
  3)Services, like vacations or doctors' appointments; 
  4)Software, like word processing or photo editing programs

Digital marketing 
is the practice of reaching consumers online through digital channels with the aim of turning them into customers. 
A digital channel is any communication method or platform a business can use to reach their target audience online. 
They are things like websites, search engines, email, or social media platforms.
Digital marketing also helps businesses build trust, inspire loyalty, and better serve their customers. 

 Advantage of Digital Marketing
-Cost-effective
-Reach more people
-Faster results
-Build realtionship with customer

 a few skills and qualities that can set you up for success in digital marketing and e-commerce: 
 curiosity:- People who are curious ask questions, seek out answers, and try new things. 
             what they want, how they think, and what motivates them to take action.
 an analytical mindset:- It's a way of thinking. If you ever made a big decision like planning a trip
                         or buying a car, you've probably practiced analytical thinking.
                         If you compared things like cost, size, features, and safety ratings and picked 
                         a car based on which of those things were most important to you , that's analytical thinking.
                         Once you've analyzed data for insights, you need to be able to communicate them effectively to an audience
 storytelling:- helps businesses communicate value to customers in a way that's accessible, engaging, and most importantly, memorable.
 Marketing Role
In-house:-  you work for a single company to market and sell their products.
As an in-house employee, you get to know one company and its products extremely well.
You also gain deep knowledge and expertise in a specific industry.

Agencies Role:- partner with companies that don't have in house marketing teams to fill their digital marketing and advertising needs.
Agency benefit 
-collaborate on a varity of initiatives in multiple industries.
-develope broad and flexible experiance
-get to know certain skill sets well


